MIKE LACEY BIO

After graduating SUNY, New Paltz with a Communications degree in 1981 I got a job at National Video Center in New York City working in the shipping department.  I think it still holds true today that getting an education is a great thing to do but getting a degree in TV Production does not equate to “real world” experience.

I learned so much at National.  If you watch the move “Tootsie” you’ll see where I worked!.  It was the perfect time to start working there.  They had just relocated from a small space on 57th Street to a four story complex on 42nd Street.  The opportunity for growth was something that I was looking for and took full advantage of my opportunities.  During my non messenger times I got to meet people and experience everything from tape operation (quad machines were still in) to high end productions with CBS Cable and the Daytime Network, which was the precursor to today’s Lifetime Network, in the two studios on the first floor.

Cable TV was at its infancy and I was on the ground floor (literally!).  Trying to make a long story short, while at National, I was able to perform all technical positions except A-1 and assisted the production manager in hiring crews, renting equipment and booking the facilities.  I watched and learned from the best of everyone in the industry, figuring out what works best and what doesn’t (be polite, say please and thank you and treat EVERYONE and our business with respect).  My technical knowledge grew as did my overall knowledge of how to bring a production together.  Taking advantage of an opportunity on a USA Network show, I became a cameraman/lighting director that people wanted to work with.

Fast forward to 1987 and we moved to Orlando!  The allure of the Disney studios and Universals plans were too much to resist.  Working in the city sure was fantastic but it was time to get off those New Jersey Transit buses.  I got a job with Studio 6 Productions housed in WCPX (now WKMG) as the “remote location supervisor”.  I still did lighting, camera work, helped build a five camera truck that was used for a variety of things including sports and entertainment.  My tenure ended in 1991 there and I moved to full time freelance.  I was able to get work at Nickelodeon (most of what was produced there from 1992 to 2000), doing camera work, both studio and EFP, the Disney Studios, including the last season of the Mickey Mouse Club, among others and started my foray into sports with Sunshine Network (Fox Sports Sun now) and Corporate work as well.

I saw the writing on the wall with the Studios slowing down and decided that I could figure out how to TD!  Telling my plan to Paul Spitzer, a great TD in Orlando, he said he would show me the ropes.  I practiced everyday at lunch while working on a show at Disney (maybe “Dooley and Pals”?).  I told Sunshine what I was doing and a few months later got a “late call” to TD the next day in Gainesville for a UF softball game.  I said yes as long as everyone understood that I was NOT going to have a “clean” show.  They said they understood, and they did!  I’m not going to say it was a good show on my part but it wasn’t terrible either.  They thought I was good enough to be asked back!  

While getting better as a TD, I still operated a camera and really honed in on paying attention to the nuances of all the directors I worked with both in entertainment and sports.  I knew that given the opportunity, I could fill that seat too…  After being told no SO many time when bringing my directing inquiries to many a EP, I was given a break by CCI!  I met Jim Lewis, helped him on the TD end of things and he had enough confidence in me to direct a couple of years of syndicated college basketball tournament games and rocket launches.  Everything went well and I was convinced that I should continue on that path.  I know this is a rather long “Bio” but I want people in this business, that are passionate about it, to know my story and never give up on their dream.  

Since working with CCI, I have been able to direct PGA Tour golf (my main client now - check out what we do on PGA Tour Live), the U.S. martial arts championships, U.S. Olympic Judo qualifying, NASCAR Media Days, The Ultra Music Fest, professional wrestling (how fun!), corporate shows and more.

To sum it all up, TV production is the perfect vocation for me.  I like the fact that  with what you are doing (providing entertainment), you are the only one doing that job in the WHOLE world, at that moment for that show!  Make it the best you can, no matter what role you play.  Whether you are an A-2 putting the mics in the proper position, coiling cable, framing a camera, cutting the cameras or interacting with the crew, be passionate about what you do!  I’m looking forward to the next chapter in my career.  
